# Ending the Rental Web
Ending the rental web by creating a decentralized cloud alternative, Blockchain-Attached Storage (BAS), that solves the ‘paying problem’ for users and open-source developers

## 1. Abstract
Centralized cloud services offer powerful applications and seamless user experiences, but a provider’s incentives are often misaligned with users. In typical centralized cloud service models, users ‘rent’ the hardware for storage and computation by paying via subscriptions, ads or personal data. For example, when a cloud provider profits through user engagement (e.g., ad clicks), its rational incentive is to draw attention and arouse reactions regardless of the users’ best interests, thereby increasing its ad clicks. Some services provide value for millions of users. But given that cloud providers are expected to generate profits for shareholders, they will shut down a popular service if it cannot demonstrate a viable revenue stream or tertiary strategic advantage. Providers also offer ‘free’ services to attract users while planning to introduce a paid tier system later, fully aware that a substantial number of users who become dependent on the service offered will be unwilling or unable to pay. The Fula Network is a privacy-focused, user-owned, free-to-use open-source platform with a builtin incentive layer designed to reduce, eliminate or invert these misaligned incentives. By doing so, it enables free-to-use applications for users that directly compensate developers. Users on the Fula Network retain total ownership over their data. For example, a free-to-use streaming service on the Fula Network can provide personalized recommendations based on a user’s usage data. But that data remains in the owner’s possession and is inaccessible to the streaming application.


